# SER517_Group35_Capstone

The eyes serve as a pathway to collect information to be processed by the brain, and thus eye monitoring is a pivotal answer introduced to understand and quantize this intricate and dynamic interface. In an age governed by technology and daily interactions with screens and cameras, the importance of eye tracking as a solution cannot be overstated. Eye tracking techniques can be categorized into two fundamental approaches. The first is the integration of external hardware components, exemplified by using infrared (IR) sensors such as the Tobii Eye Tracker, which has also played a significant role in evaluating deep learning algorithms providing the ground-truth values. In contrast, the second approach relies solely on web cameras for eye gaze tracking, driven by practicality and cost-efficiency, prompting ongoing efforts to optimize webcam-based solutions.

In today's virtual landscape, we have the opportunity to delve into the profound significance of eye tracking across diverse disciplines. Past studies have paved the road. They have introduced us to an inventory of eye tracking models and approaches while highlighting the importance of matching each model with its parallel application based on its accuracy and the application's accuracy requirements. While some models might prove to be very precise and accurate, they could be impractical due to their extensive data requirements, lengthy training time and huge computational demand. On the other hand, some applications demand high level of accuracy only provided by specialized models. Therefore, the goal of this project is to perform a comparative study and analysis of different eye gaze tracking estimation models (e.g. iTracker, GazeEstimator, GAZEL, etc.) to determine the optimal model based on related application requirements and explore opportunities for further performance enhancement
